>> Most young children show
signs of creative genius.
But over time, those
numbers drop significantly.
A new study on how
young children learn
could help parents
teach their children
and help answer the question
of nature, versus nurture.
This is Gaia News.
In 1968, a study conducted by
George Land and Beth Jarman
found that 98% of children were
considered creative geniuses
by NASA's standards.
But as this group grew
older, that number
dropped off rapidly.
At age 10, it fell to 30%.
By age 15, it dropped to 12%.
And by adulthood,
it was just 2%.
Today researchers at
Birkbeck University in London
are using brainwave
scanning caps
to look inside the
brains of toddlers
while they complete
various tasks.
Artie Wu, an expert on
parenting, relationships,
and finding your bliss,
weighs in on the subject.
>> Children come out, they
see the world as it is,
they don't know, there is no
filter between brain and mouth.
But this is the genius view,
they see the world as it is,
not as it should be.
The aperture has
not tightened down,
they just see everything
as it is and they say it.
We typically need to do some
bit of trimming, training,
educating for them to be
able to get along in life.
The way we do the enforcement
is through shaming.
>> Part of NASA's creative
genius tests determined whether
a subject showed
divergent thinking,
also known as thinking
outside the box.
Children have these ideas often.
But as we get older, we become
afraid of expressing them out
of fear of being wrong.
>> So the difference
between shame and guilt is,
guilt is there something
transactionally that's often
"we can fix that."
And shame is there's something
intrinsically wrong with me.
Especially to a
seven-year-old, they
don't know the difference
between guilt and shame
so they feel like
they are loved less.
Because of the shaming
mechanism we use,
what ends up being instilled
in the kid is that my love is
conditional, there's something
I can actually do which
will cause me to lose love.
>> What with the
opposite look like?
What if we were encouraged as
children, instead of shamed?
Artie Wu points out the
story of young Pablo Picasso.
>> Even as a boy, he was
apparently so good that his
father came to Picasso and the
father gave him, gave Picasso,
his own brushes and said, you
are so good I cannot paint
anymore.
I'm done and you are now
the painter of the family.
Picasso-- I don't know,
seven, eleven, whatever.
And I'm like, talk
about self-esteem.
So the eternal
question is, was there
something in Picasso,
that 98% genius that
was preserved by that kind of
upbringing and environment?
But then the implication
is like, well,
what are you saying, Artie?
Are you saying
we're all Picassos
and we've just lost this
expression of our inner Picasso
because of this?
And I'm like, yeah,
that's what I'm saying.
>> The researchers at Birkbeck
University hope to use the same
technology in the future to
study adults and may prove that
we have a genius hidden
inside all of us.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.